content/old/creative-works/ad-astra-the-50th-anniversary-sfwa-cookbook.md, before:

---
title: "Ad Astra: The 50th Anniversary SFWA Cookbook"
date: "2015-08-06"
categories:
  - "misc"
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

What's that? I share a contributor credit with such famous speculative fiction writers as Elizabeth Bear, John Scalzi, Chuck Wendig, Mary Robinette Kowal, Alaya Dawn Johnson, and Jim C. Hines?

[![Ad Astra Cover](images/Ad-Astra-Cover-372x500.jpg)](http://thegourmez.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/Ad-Astra-Cover.jpg)

You bet I do! The _Ad Astra 50th Anniversary SFWA Cookbook_ came to be when a few fellow illustrious Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America members decided it was high past time for another cookbook to come forth from our midst. Cat Rambo and Fran Wilde volunteered for editing duties and managed to gather up 150+ recipes along with some bonus specialties with ingredients that may be hard to find...

I'll let the Foreword speak for itself to give you a better idea of what this cookbook entails:

> Within the science fiction and fantasy community, writers work wherever they can find a table, often among friends, virtual and face to face. It's a blend of friendship and business, of celebration and craft. It's messy sometimes. It's beautiful.
>
> In celebration of fifty years of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America, _Ad Astra: The 50th Anniversary SFWA Cookbook_ has collected recipes old and new from writers across the span of its membership. But this is more than just a cookbook. What you hold in your hands is a historical document. You'll find a history of SF/F entertaining that goes back more than fifty years. Some of it is funny; some (like the bash cake/Mars colony cake), is itself a historical document; some of it is conversations between multiple writers. Some of it is written in fanciful, or ... colorful language.
>
> Here be Dragons.
>
> Not everyone we wished to include are within these pages. But many are. We hope many more are to come in the future cookbooks.

The introduction to my Seared Peaches with Prosciutto and Basil definitely qualifies as one of those fanciful entries. It is a tribute to the speculative fiction writers and fans of the Research Triangle Park area of North Carolina, which is where I began my fiction-writing career and where I developed wonderful friends and support from among many talented fellow key-pounders.

[![Ad Astra Cookbook-2](images/Ad-Astra-Cookbook-2-1024x759.jpg)](http://thegourmez.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/Ad-Astra-Cookbook-2.jpg)

You can get your hands on this very unique, and very fun collector's item of a cookbook straight from [the SFWA website here](https://www.sfwa.org/sfwa-publications/preorder-your-sfwa-cookbook-now/). Click to order through Paypal. Spiral-bound print is $19.95 and e-book is $9.99. I'd recommend the print myself.

_Ad Astra_ is also available for the same prices from Amazon.

All proceeds from the book go directly to the [SFWA Legal Fund,](https://www.sfwa.org/about/benevolent-funds/legal-fund/) which is used to help SFWA members with court costs when the need for writing-related legal action is necessary--most of us don't make much in this gig, so the legal fund can be a career saver when our work needs to be protected.

Enjoy this fun collaboration, and I'll enjoy my moment of glory being among this fantastic group of recipe contributors.

Commit message:

adding forward matter for fiction and nonfiction

content/old/creative-works/ad-astra-the-50th-anniversary-sfwa-cookbook.md, after:

---
title: "Ad Astra: The 50th Anniversary SFWA Cookbook"
date: "2015-08-06"
coverImage: "https://d602mxa74hbsi.cloudfront.net/Ad+Astra+Cover.jpg"
publication: "Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers Association"
amazon: "https://www.amazon.com/Ad-Astra-50th-Anniversary-Cookbook/dp/0982846711/"
barnes and noble: "https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/ad-astra-cat-rambo/1122364985?ean=2940152277920"
bookshop dot org:
pub store: "https://store.sfwa.org/product/sfwa-cookbook-spiral-bound/"
categories:
  - "misc"
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

What's that? I share a contributor credit with such famous speculative fiction writers as Elizabeth Bear, John Scalzi, Chuck Wendig, Mary Robinette Kowal, Alaya Dawn Johnson, and Jim C. Hines?

![Ad Astra Cover](https://d602mxa74hbsi.cloudfront.net/Ad+Astra+Cover.jpg)

You bet I do! The _Ad Astra 50th Anniversary SFWA Cookbook_ came to be when a few fellow illustrious Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America members decided it was high past time for another cookbook to come forth from our midst. Cat Rambo and Fran Wilde volunteered for editing duties and managed to gather up 150+ recipes along with some bonus specialties with ingredients that may be hard to find...

I'll let the Foreword speak for itself to give you a better idea of what this cookbook entails:

> Within the science fiction and fantasy community, writers work wherever they can find a table, often among friends, virtual and face to face. It's a blend of friendship and business, of celebration and craft. It's messy sometimes. It's beautiful.
>
> In celebration of fifty years of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America, _Ad Astra: The 50th Anniversary SFWA Cookbook_ has collected recipes old and new from writers across the span of its membership. But this is more than just a cookbook. What you hold in your hands is a historical document. You'll find a history of SF/F entertaining that goes back more than fifty years. Some of it is funny; some (like the bash cake/Mars colony cake), is itself a historical document; some of it is conversations between multiple writers. Some of it is written in fanciful, or ... colorful language.
>
> Here be Dragons.
>
> Not everyone we wished to include are within these pages. But many are. We hope many more are to come in the future cookbooks.

The introduction to my Seared Peaches with Prosciutto and Basil definitely qualifies as one of those fanciful entries. It is a tribute to the speculative fiction writers and fans of the Research Triangle Park area of North Carolina, which is where I began my fiction-writing career and where I developed wonderful friends and support from among many talented fellow key-pounders.

![Ad Astra Cookbook Inside](https://d602mxa74hbsi.cloudfront.net/Ad+Astra+Cookbook-2.jpg)

You can get your hands on this very unique, and very fun collector's item of a cookbook straight from [the SFWA website here](https://www.sfwa.org/sfwa-publications/preorder-your-sfwa-cookbook-now/). Prices vary.

All proceeds from the book go directly to the [SFWA Legal Fund,](https://www.sfwa.org/about/benevolent-funds/legal-fund/) which is used to help SFWA members with court costs when the need for writing-related legal action is necessary--most of us don't make much in this gig, so the legal fund can be a career saver when our work needs to be protected.

Enjoy this fun collaboration, and I'll enjoy my moment of glory being among this fantastic group of recipe contributors.
