content/blog/2016-03-18-the-r-r-coffee-cocktail-at-neighborhood.md, before:

---
title: "The R & R Coffee Cocktail at Neighborhood"
date: "2016-03-18"
categories: 
  - "bars"
  - "cocktails"
tags: 
  - "ballz-deep"
  - "beer-cocktail"
  - "cocktail"
  - "coffee-cocktails"
  - "cream"
  - "neighborhood"
  - "r-r-coffee-cocktail"
  - "review"
  - "san-diego"
  - "stout"
---

[![Neighborhood R & R Coffee Cocktail San Diego](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/03/neighborhood-cocktail-426x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/03/neighborhood-cocktail.jpg)

It can be difficult to create a new—and successful—coffee cocktail. Recently, I came across an attempt at San Diego’s [Neighborhood](http://www.neighborhoodsd.com/hood/) in the Gaslamp Quarter. Neighborhood is an appealing, hipsterish pub with dark wood tables, a well-thought-out spirits and tap list, and plenty of classed up American comfort foods. It’s casual enough that patrons felt comfortable working on laptops there into the Happiest of Hours.

The challenge in making coffee cocktails is twofold. By far, the hardest part is balancing the acidity of the coffee against the heat of the alcohol. Secondly, attempts to move beyond dessert cocktails, by which I mean relying on sweetness and cream, are rare. Of course, I love dessert cocktails, but for coffee drinks, it’s a box they are so often pushed into even when alcohol is not involved. C’mon folks, you _know_ 90% of the drinks offered at any coffee shop are full of more sugar and fat than a morning danish.  And danishes have a LOT.

Thus, I applaud any bar that ventures beyond the white russian and the espresso martini in their coffee cocktail experimentation. Neighborhood’s R & R Coffee Cocktail is one such example, and as I saw it on the menu while in need of caffeine…but also on vacation, so alcohol was on the agenda. The drink’s made with cold brew coffee, stout beer, a little cream, and a splash of Ballz Deep, a charmingly named cocktail on tap at the restaurant. I’m not yet sold on the benefits of tap cocktails, [having enjoyed one and loathed another](http://thegourmez.com/2015/10/05/mason-bar/) at Mason Bar in Arroyo Grande, but Neighorhood’s draft wine on tap, the Hahn GSM, was pretty great.

 

> [Although this has the softness I associate with draft #wine, and I prefer my wine to make an entrance, this one wins me over with its complexity. It slips into the stable, quiet enough to leave the horses undisturbed. A deeper, more complex, merlot-like spice and fruit combination is released, with hay, dust cherry, and bay leaf. Enjoy the majesty beheld in a simple tail swish. - Hahn GSM Draft - California - 4/5 \_\_\_\_\_ #winelover #winereview #tastingnotes #tasting #CAwine #redwine](https://www.instagram.com/p/BCivKbTQQnF/)
> 
> A photo posted by Becca Gomez Farrell (@thegourmez) on Mar 4, 2016 at 11:25am PST

 

So I deemed a cocktail containing Ballz Deep worth the risk. Ballz Deep is “fireball bourbon” made in-house with a “cinnamon spice bomb” that the menu calls sweet, spicy, and a little offensive. For flavor, it was the R & R’s primary contributor, and that was a good thing. I’d say it added a bit of Goldschlager’s appeal and profile. The coffee and stout could both have had stronger presences; I’d venture to say this drink might be better without the cream at all. But I did appreciate the mild sweetness the stout contributed to the mix. I'd just have liked more of its maltiness as well.

Was it a great coffee cocktail? Nah. It was just alright. But among the paltry offerings in this category, alright is pretty good.

[![Chicken the Gourmez Rating 3/5 Average](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2009/02/rating_chicken11.gif)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2009/02/rating_chicken11.gif)

_Reviewed 4 March 2016._

Commit message:

Becca further updates
Removing photo website references, updating social medial embeds - all instagram, youtube, and up to 9/10/2015 on Twitter

content/blog/2016-03-18-the-r-r-coffee-cocktail-at-neighborhood.md, after:

---
title: "The R & R Coffee Cocktail at Neighborhood"
date: "2016-03-18"
categories: 
  - "bars"
  - "cocktails"
tags: 
  - "ballz-deep"
  - "beer-cocktail"
  - "cocktail"
  - "coffee-cocktails"
  - "cream"
  - "neighborhood"
  - "r-r-coffee-cocktail"
  - "review"
  - "san-diego"
  - "stout"
---

[![Neighborhood R & R Coffee Cocktail San Diego](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/03/neighborhood-cocktail-426x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/03/neighborhood-cocktail.jpg)

It can be difficult to create a new—and successful—coffee cocktail. Recently, I came across an attempt at San Diego’s [Neighborhood](http://www.neighborhoodsd.com/hood/) in the Gaslamp Quarter. Neighborhood is an appealing, hipsterish pub with dark wood tables, a well-thought-out spirits and tap list, and plenty of classed up American comfort foods. It’s casual enough that patrons felt comfortable working on laptops there into the Happiest of Hours.

The challenge in making coffee cocktails is twofold. By far, the hardest part is balancing the acidity of the coffee against the heat of the alcohol. Secondly, attempts to move beyond dessert cocktails, by which I mean relying on sweetness and cream, are rare. Of course, I love dessert cocktails, but for coffee drinks, it’s a box they are so often pushed into even when alcohol is not involved. C’mon folks, you _know_ 90% of the drinks offered at any coffee shop are full of more sugar and fat than a morning danish.  And danishes have a LOT.

Thus, I applaud any bar that ventures beyond the white russian and the espresso martini in their coffee cocktail experimentation. Neighborhood’s R & R Coffee Cocktail is one such example, and as I saw it on the menu while in need of caffeine…but also on vacation, so alcohol was on the agenda. The drink’s made with cold brew coffee, stout beer, a little cream, and a splash of Ballz Deep, a charmingly named cocktail on tap at the restaurant. I’m not yet sold on the benefits of tap cocktails, [having enjoyed one and loathed another](http://thegourmez.com/2015/10/05/mason-bar/) at Mason Bar in Arroyo Grande, but Neighorhood’s draft wine on tap, the Hahn GSM, was pretty great.

 

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-permalink="https://www.instagram.com/p/BCivKbTQQnF/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" data-instgrm-version="14" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:540px; min-width:326px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:16px;"> <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BCivKbTQQnF/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" style=" background:#FFFFFF; line-height:0; padding:0 0; text-align:center; text-decoration:none; width:100%;" target="_blank"> <div style=" display: flex; flex-direction: row; align-items: center;"> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; flex-grow: 0; height: 40px; margin-right: 14px; width: 40px;"></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column; flex-grow: 1; justify-content: center;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; margin-bottom: 6px; width: 100px;"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; width: 60px;"></div></div></div><div style="padding: 19% 0;"></div> <div style="display:block; height:50px; margin:0 auto 12px; width:50px;"><svg width="50px" height="50px" viewBox="0 0 60 60" version="1.1" xmlns="https://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="https://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"><g stroke="none" stroke-width="1" fill="none" fill-rule="evenodd"><g transform="translate(-511.000000, -20.000000)" fill="#000000"><g><path d="M556.869,30.41 C554.814,30.41 553.148,32.076 553.148,34.131 C553.148,36.186 554.814,37.852 556.869,37.852 C558.924,37.852 560.59,36.186 560.59,34.131 C560.59,32.076 558.924,30.41 556.869,30.41 M541,60.657 C535.114,60.657 530.342,55.887 530.342,50 C530.342,44.114 535.114,39.342 541,39.342 C546.887,39.342 551.658,44.114 551.658,50 C551.658,55.887 546.887,60.657 541,60.657 M541,33.886 C532.1,33.886 524.886,41.1 524.886,50 C524.886,58.899 532.1,66.113 541,66.113 C549.9,66.113 557.115,58.899 557.115,50 C557.115,41.1 549.9,33.886 541,33.886 M565.378,62.101 C565.244,65.022 564.756,66.606 564.346,67.663 C563.803,69.06 563.154,70.057 562.106,71.106 C561.058,72.155 560.06,72.803 558.662,73.347 C557.607,73.757 556.021,74.244 553.102,74.378 C549.944,74.521 548.997,74.552 541,74.552 C533.003,74.552 532.056,74.521 528.898,74.378 C525.979,74.244 524.393,73.757 523.338,73.347 C521.94,72.803 520.942,72.155 519.894,71.106 C518.846,70.057 518.197,69.06 517.654,67.663 C517.244,66.606 516.755,65.022 516.623,62.101 C516.479,58.943 516.448,57.996 516.448,50 C516.448,42.003 516.479,41.056 516.623,37.899 C516.755,34.978 517.244,33.391 517.654,32.338 C518.197,30.938 518.846,29.942 519.894,28.894 C520.942,27.846 521.94,27.196 523.338,26.654 C524.393,26.244 525.979,25.756 528.898,25.623 C532.057,25.479 533.004,25.448 541,25.448 C548.997,25.448 549.943,25.479 553.102,25.623 C556.021,25.756 557.607,26.244 558.662,26.654 C560.06,27.196 561.058,27.846 562.106,28.894 C563.154,29.942 563.803,30.938 564.346,32.338 C564.756,33.391 565.244,34.978 565.378,37.899 C565.522,41.056 565.552,42.003 565.552,50 C565.552,57.996 565.522,58.943 565.378,62.101 M570.82,37.631 C570.674,34.438 570.167,32.258 569.425,30.349 C568.659,28.377 567.633,26.702 565.965,25.035 C564.297,23.368 562.623,22.342 560.652,21.575 C558.743,20.834 556.562,20.326 553.369,20.18 C550.169,20.033 549.148,20 541,20 C532.853,20 531.831,20.033 528.631,20.18 C525.438,20.326 523.257,20.834 521.349,21.575 C519.376,22.342 517.703,23.368 516.035,25.035 C514.368,26.702 513.342,28.377 512.574,30.349 C511.834,32.258 511.326,34.438 511.181,37.631 C511.035,40.831 511,41.851 511,50 C511,58.147 511.035,59.17 511.181,62.369 C511.326,65.562 511.834,67.743 512.574,69.651 C513.342,71.625 514.368,73.296 516.035,74.965 C517.703,76.634 519.376,77.658 521.349,78.425 C523.257,79.167 525.438,79.673 528.631,79.82 C531.831,79.965 532.853,80.001 541,80.001 C549.148,80.001 550.169,79.965 553.369,79.82 C556.562,79.673 558.743,79.167 560.652,78.425 C562.623,77.658 564.297,76.634 565.965,74.965 C567.633,73.296 568.659,71.625 569.425,69.651 C570.167,67.743 570.674,65.562 570.82,62.369 C570.966,59.17 571,58.147 571,50 C571,41.851 570.966,40.831 570.82,37.631"></path></g></g></g></svg></div><div style="padding-top: 8px;"> <div style=" color:#3897f0; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:550; line-height:18px;">View this post on Instagram</div></div><div style="padding: 12.5% 0;"></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: row; margin-bottom: 14px; align-items: center;"><div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; height: 12.5px; width: 12.5px; transform: translateX(0px) translateY(7px);"></div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; height: 12.5px; transform: rotate(-45deg) translateX(3px) translateY(1px); width: 12.5px; flex-grow: 0; margin-right: 14px; margin-left: 2px;"></div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; height: 12.5px; width: 12.5px; transform: translateX(9px) translateY(-18px);"></div></div><div style="margin-left: 8px;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; flex-grow: 0; height: 20px; width: 20px;"></div> <div style=" width: 0; height: 0; border-top: 2px solid transparent; border-left: 6px solid #f4f4f4; border-bottom: 2px solid transparent; transform: translateX(16px) translateY(-4px) rotate(30deg)"></div></div><div style="margin-left: auto;"> <div style=" width: 0px; border-top: 8px solid #F4F4F4; border-right: 8px solid transparent; transform: translateY(16px);"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; flex-grow: 0; height: 12px; width: 16px; transform: translateY(-4px);"></div> <div style=" width: 0; height: 0; border-top: 8px solid #F4F4F4; border-left: 8px solid transparent; transform: translateY(-4px) translateX(8px);"></div></div></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column; flex-grow: 1; justify-content: center; margin-bottom: 24px;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; margin-bottom: 6px; width: 224px;"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; width: 144px;"></div></div></a><p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;"><a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BCivKbTQQnF/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none;" target="_blank">A post shared by Becca | Author &amp; Influencer (@thegourmez)</a></p></div></blockquote> <script async src="//www.instagram.com/embed.js"></script>

 

So I deemed a cocktail containing Ballz Deep worth the risk. Ballz Deep is “fireball bourbon” made in-house with a “cinnamon spice bomb” that the menu calls sweet, spicy, and a little offensive. For flavor, it was the R & R’s primary contributor, and that was a good thing. I’d say it added a bit of Goldschlager’s appeal and profile. The coffee and stout could both have had stronger presences; I’d venture to say this drink might be better without the cream at all. But I did appreciate the mild sweetness the stout contributed to the mix. I'd just have liked more of its maltiness as well.

Was it a great coffee cocktail? Nah. It was just alright. But among the paltry offerings in this category, alright is pretty good.

[![Chicken the Gourmez Rating 3/5 Average](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2009/02/rating_chicken11.gif)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2009/02/rating_chicken11.gif)

_Reviewed 4 March 2016._
