content/blog/2016-05-05-brotzeit-lokal-review-oakland.md, before:

---
title: "Brotzeit Lokal"
date: "2016-05-05"
categories:
  - "cider"
  - "beer"
  - "restaurants"
tags:
  - "aspalls-cider"
  - "beer-review"
  - "beer-garden"
  - "bread-pudding"
  - "brooklyn-basin"
  - "brotzeit-lokal"
  - "german-cuisine"
  - "german-food"
  - "oakland"
  - "potato-pancakes"
  - "restaurant-review"
  - "sausage"
  - "views"
---

1000 Embarcadero\
Brooklyn Basin, Oakland\
[Website](http://brotzeitbiergarten.com/)\
$10–$28

Brotzeit Lokal is memorable for more than being a mouthful to pronounce. We all love beer gardens, right? So what makes a beer garden even better? A beautiful view!

[![Brotzeit Lokal View Brooklyn Basin](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-07-1024x195.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-07.jpg)

You can see it from inside the tinted glass walls of Brotzeit’s dining room, but the open-air patio is where that beer garden pull is strongest. The patio is lined with picnic benches and comes with a refreshing breeze from the little marina it shares space with. It’s especially scenic in those late afternoon, early evening, happiest of hours on weekdays. I have one friend who’s a big fan of the $1.50 oyster specials at that time.




<div class="caption">

[![brotzeit lokal mussels oakland](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/brotzeit-lokal-mussels-375x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/brotzeit-lokal-mussels.jpg) Yes, those are mussels, but just play along and pretend I have the right photograph.</div>


Brooklyn Basin isn’t the same as gazing across the Bay to San Francisco, of course, but it’s ideal for feeling more secluded from the crowd. You’re more likely to find housecats dashing between the moored boats than cargo ships crossing under a bridge there.

In food and beer selection, Brotzeit Lokal aims squarely at the fatherland of beer gardens: Germany. Belgium also plays a significant role in the list of 16 drafts and 20-odd bottles available.




<div class="caption">

[![Beer Brotzeit Lokal Oakland](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-03-500x454.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-03.jpg) A Dirty Hoe and a Dirty Blonde, drunk by friends on my most recent excursion.</div>


Luckily for me, Brotzeit also has a selection of ciders. Possman’s Pure Cider, from Germany, was a little too sweet for my tastes--

[![Possman's Pure Cider](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-08-368x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-08.jpg)

\--but Aspall’s Dry Cider, from the UK, hit the spot, providing the crisp, dry, minerality I find refreshing in a good cider.

[![Aspall Dry Cider](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-10-500x449.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-10.jpg)

Over the past three years, I’ve made roughly five visits to Brotzeit Lokal, and the waitstaff have varied greatly in demeanor. Some of them are gruff, loathe to offer details, and hard to locate when you need them. Others make regular rounds and complete service with a smile. Dishes, similarly, have ranged from acceptable to excellent. On that most recent visit, I tried the pretzel bread pudding served with whipped cream and a salted caramel sauce.

[![Pretzel bread pudding brotzeit lokal](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-11-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-11.jpg)

While still bread pudding, which is nearly always tasty in my book, I was disappointed they went custard- rather than homestyle in preparation--if _pretzel_ is in the menu item description, I want it to be somewhat recognizable in the dish. But my potato pancakes, called kartoffelpuffer_,_ may have been the best I’ve had since I worked at a Czech restaurant in Davis in 2002–2003.

[![potato pancakes kartoffelpuffer brotzeit lokal](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-09-500x374.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-09.jpg)

A little greasy, but they had great crunch, good flavor, and just the right amount of apple sauce and sour cream to complement them.

We’ve had the most success with dishes at dinner time, as I believe Brotzeit does a pretty good job of serving up the standards, such as wiener schnitzel and sauerbraten. Of course, I’ve also tried the sausages, specifically the wurzige, a “spicy chicken and pork everything sausage”:

> [My own wurzige with varous accoutrements, including a wonderful marina view. #Oakland](https://www.instagram.com/p/z55f-4QQr6/)
>
> A photo posted by Becca Gomez Farrell (@thegourmez) on Mar 6, 2015 at 3:27pm PST

The sausage accoutrements are good, though warmer than I prefer for pickles and slaw. The sausage itself disappeared within that bun, leaving me with little impression other than dryness. To be fair, that is partially my fault for not liking mustard. I know, German sausage without mustard?! _The scandal._ But I would hope the sausage served would leave an impression without it.

Ultimately, I think Brotzeit Lokal is worth going to for the view alone, and the chances of also finding tasty food to go with your brews are good, if not always as memorable. If you go, you should know that it’s actually situated behind the Homewood Suites on Embarcadero. Drive down the hotel’s right side and head toward the water. You’ll see Brotzeit Lokal and its views soon enough.

[![Chicken the Gourmez Rating 3/5 Average](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2009/02/rating_chicken11.gif)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2009/02/rating_chicken11.gif)

_Most recently visited 23 March 2016._

Commit message:

Becca further updates
Removing photo website references, updating social medial embeds - all instagram, youtube, and up to 9/10/2015 on Twitter

content/blog/2016-05-05-brotzeit-lokal-review-oakland.md, after:

---
title: "Brotzeit Lokal"
date: "2016-05-05"
categories:
  - "cider"
  - "beer"
  - "restaurants"
tags:
  - "aspalls-cider"
  - "beer-review"
  - "beer-garden"
  - "bread-pudding"
  - "brooklyn-basin"
  - "brotzeit-lokal"
  - "german-cuisine"
  - "german-food"
  - "oakland"
  - "potato-pancakes"
  - "restaurant-review"
  - "sausage"
  - "views"
---

1000 Embarcadero\
Brooklyn Basin, Oakland\
[Website](http://brotzeitbiergarten.com/)\
$10–$28

Brotzeit Lokal is memorable for more than being a mouthful to pronounce. We all love beer gardens, right? So what makes a beer garden even better? A beautiful view!

[![Brotzeit Lokal View Brooklyn Basin](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-07-1024x195.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-07.jpg)

You can see it from inside the tinted glass walls of Brotzeit’s dining room, but the open-air patio is where that beer garden pull is strongest. The patio is lined with picnic benches and comes with a refreshing breeze from the little marina it shares space with. It’s especially scenic in those late afternoon, early evening, happiest of hours on weekdays. I have one friend who’s a big fan of the $1.50 oyster specials at that time.




<div class="caption">

[![brotzeit lokal mussels oakland](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/brotzeit-lokal-mussels-375x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/brotzeit-lokal-mussels.jpg) Yes, those are mussels, but just play along and pretend I have the right photograph.</div>


Brooklyn Basin isn’t the same as gazing across the Bay to San Francisco, of course, but it’s ideal for feeling more secluded from the crowd. You’re more likely to find housecats dashing between the moored boats than cargo ships crossing under a bridge there.

In food and beer selection, Brotzeit Lokal aims squarely at the fatherland of beer gardens: Germany. Belgium also plays a significant role in the list of 16 drafts and 20-odd bottles available.




<div class="caption">

[![Beer Brotzeit Lokal Oakland](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-03-500x454.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-03.jpg) A Dirty Hoe and a Dirty Blonde, drunk by friends on my most recent excursion.</div>


Luckily for me, Brotzeit also has a selection of ciders. Possman’s Pure Cider, from Germany, was a little too sweet for my tastes--

[![Possman's Pure Cider](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-08-368x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-08.jpg)

\--but Aspall’s Dry Cider, from the UK, hit the spot, providing the crisp, dry, minerality I find refreshing in a good cider.

[![Aspall Dry Cider](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-10-500x449.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-10.jpg)

Over the past three years, I’ve made roughly five visits to Brotzeit Lokal, and the waitstaff have varied greatly in demeanor. Some of them are gruff, loathe to offer details, and hard to locate when you need them. Others make regular rounds and complete service with a smile. Dishes, similarly, have ranged from acceptable to excellent. On that most recent visit, I tried the pretzel bread pudding served with whipped cream and a salted caramel sauce.

[![Pretzel bread pudding brotzeit lokal](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-11-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-11.jpg)

While still bread pudding, which is nearly always tasty in my book, I was disappointed they went custard- rather than homestyle in preparation--if _pretzel_ is in the menu item description, I want it to be somewhat recognizable in the dish. But my potato pancakes, called kartoffelpuffer_,_ may have been the best I’ve had since I worked at a Czech restaurant in Davis in 2002–2003.

[![potato pancakes kartoffelpuffer brotzeit lokal](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-09-500x374.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/04/Brotzeit-Lokal-09.jpg)

A little greasy, but they had great crunch, good flavor, and just the right amount of apple sauce and sour cream to complement them.

We’ve had the most success with dishes at dinner time, as I believe Brotzeit does a pretty good job of serving up the standards, such as wiener schnitzel and sauerbraten. Of course, I’ve also tried the sausages, specifically the wurzige, a “spicy chicken and pork everything sausage”:

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-permalink="https://www.instagram.com/p/z55f-4QQr6/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" data-instgrm-version="14" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:540px; min-width:326px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:16px;"> <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/z55f-4QQr6/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" style=" background:#FFFFFF; line-height:0; padding:0 0; text-align:center; text-decoration:none; width:100%;" target="_blank"> <div style=" display: flex; flex-direction: row; align-items: center;"> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; flex-grow: 0; height: 40px; margin-right: 14px; width: 40px;"></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column; flex-grow: 1; justify-content: center;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; margin-bottom: 6px; width: 100px;"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; width: 60px;"></div></div></div><div style="padding: 19% 0;"></div> <div style="display:block; height:50px; margin:0 auto 12px; width:50px;"><svg width="50px" height="50px" viewBox="0 0 60 60" version="1.1" xmlns="https://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="https://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"><g stroke="none" stroke-width="1" fill="none" fill-rule="evenodd"><g transform="translate(-511.000000, -20.000000)" fill="#000000"><g><path d="M556.869,30.41 C554.814,30.41 553.148,32.076 553.148,34.131 C553.148,36.186 554.814,37.852 556.869,37.852 C558.924,37.852 560.59,36.186 560.59,34.131 C560.59,32.076 558.924,30.41 556.869,30.41 M541,60.657 C535.114,60.657 530.342,55.887 530.342,50 C530.342,44.114 535.114,39.342 541,39.342 C546.887,39.342 551.658,44.114 551.658,50 C551.658,55.887 546.887,60.657 541,60.657 M541,33.886 C532.1,33.886 524.886,41.1 524.886,50 C524.886,58.899 532.1,66.113 541,66.113 C549.9,66.113 557.115,58.899 557.115,50 C557.115,41.1 549.9,33.886 541,33.886 M565.378,62.101 C565.244,65.022 564.756,66.606 564.346,67.663 C563.803,69.06 563.154,70.057 562.106,71.106 C561.058,72.155 560.06,72.803 558.662,73.347 C557.607,73.757 556.021,74.244 553.102,74.378 C549.944,74.521 548.997,74.552 541,74.552 C533.003,74.552 532.056,74.521 528.898,74.378 C525.979,74.244 524.393,73.757 523.338,73.347 C521.94,72.803 520.942,72.155 519.894,71.106 C518.846,70.057 518.197,69.06 517.654,67.663 C517.244,66.606 516.755,65.022 516.623,62.101 C516.479,58.943 516.448,57.996 516.448,50 C516.448,42.003 516.479,41.056 516.623,37.899 C516.755,34.978 517.244,33.391 517.654,32.338 C518.197,30.938 518.846,29.942 519.894,28.894 C520.942,27.846 521.94,27.196 523.338,26.654 C524.393,26.244 525.979,25.756 528.898,25.623 C532.057,25.479 533.004,25.448 541,25.448 C548.997,25.448 549.943,25.479 553.102,25.623 C556.021,25.756 557.607,26.244 558.662,26.654 C560.06,27.196 561.058,27.846 562.106,28.894 C563.154,29.942 563.803,30.938 564.346,32.338 C564.756,33.391 565.244,34.978 565.378,37.899 C565.522,41.056 565.552,42.003 565.552,50 C565.552,57.996 565.522,58.943 565.378,62.101 M570.82,37.631 C570.674,34.438 570.167,32.258 569.425,30.349 C568.659,28.377 567.633,26.702 565.965,25.035 C564.297,23.368 562.623,22.342 560.652,21.575 C558.743,20.834 556.562,20.326 553.369,20.18 C550.169,20.033 549.148,20 541,20 C532.853,20 531.831,20.033 528.631,20.18 C525.438,20.326 523.257,20.834 521.349,21.575 C519.376,22.342 517.703,23.368 516.035,25.035 C514.368,26.702 513.342,28.377 512.574,30.349 C511.834,32.258 511.326,34.438 511.181,37.631 C511.035,40.831 511,41.851 511,50 C511,58.147 511.035,59.17 511.181,62.369 C511.326,65.562 511.834,67.743 512.574,69.651 C513.342,71.625 514.368,73.296 516.035,74.965 C517.703,76.634 519.376,77.658 521.349,78.425 C523.257,79.167 525.438,79.673 528.631,79.82 C531.831,79.965 532.853,80.001 541,80.001 C549.148,80.001 550.169,79.965 553.369,79.82 C556.562,79.673 558.743,79.167 560.652,78.425 C562.623,77.658 564.297,76.634 565.965,74.965 C567.633,73.296 568.659,71.625 569.425,69.651 C570.167,67.743 570.674,65.562 570.82,62.369 C570.966,59.17 571,58.147 571,50 C571,41.851 570.966,40.831 570.82,37.631"></path></g></g></g></svg></div><div style="padding-top: 8px;"> <div style=" color:#3897f0; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:550; line-height:18px;">View this post on Instagram</div></div><div style="padding: 12.5% 0;"></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: row; margin-bottom: 14px; align-items: center;"><div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; height: 12.5px; width: 12.5px; transform: translateX(0px) translateY(7px);"></div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; height: 12.5px; transform: rotate(-45deg) translateX(3px) translateY(1px); width: 12.5px; flex-grow: 0; margin-right: 14px; margin-left: 2px;"></div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; height: 12.5px; width: 12.5px; transform: translateX(9px) translateY(-18px);"></div></div><div style="margin-left: 8px;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; flex-grow: 0; height: 20px; width: 20px;"></div> <div style=" width: 0; height: 0; border-top: 2px solid transparent; border-left: 6px solid #f4f4f4; border-bottom: 2px solid transparent; transform: translateX(16px) translateY(-4px) rotate(30deg)"></div></div><div style="margin-left: auto;"> <div style=" width: 0px; border-top: 8px solid #F4F4F4; border-right: 8px solid transparent; transform: translateY(16px);"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; flex-grow: 0; height: 12px; width: 16px; transform: translateY(-4px);"></div> <div style=" width: 0; height: 0; border-top: 8px solid #F4F4F4; border-left: 8px solid transparent; transform: translateY(-4px) translateX(8px);"></div></div></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column; flex-grow: 1; justify-content: center; margin-bottom: 24px;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; margin-bottom: 6px; width: 224px;"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; width: 144px;"></div></div></a><p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;"><a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/z55f-4QQr6/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none;" target="_blank">A post shared by Becca | Author &amp; Influencer (@thegourmez)</a></p></div></blockquote> <script async src="//www.instagram.com/embed.js"></script>\

The sausage accoutrements are good, though warmer than I prefer for pickles and slaw. The sausage itself disappeared within that bun, leaving me with little impression other than dryness. To be fair, that is partially my fault for not liking mustard. I know, German sausage without mustard?! _The scandal._ But I would hope the sausage served would leave an impression without it.

Ultimately, I think Brotzeit Lokal is worth going to for the view alone, and the chances of also finding tasty food to go with your brews are good, if not always as memorable. If you go, you should know that it’s actually situated behind the Homewood Suites on Embarcadero. Drive down the hotel’s right side and head toward the water. You’ll see Brotzeit Lokal and its views soon enough.

[![Chicken the Gourmez Rating 3/5 Average](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2009/02/rating_chicken11.gif)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2009/02/rating_chicken11.gif)

_Most recently visited 23 March 2016._
