content/blog/2016-05-30-a-winemakers-downtown-sonoma-afternoon.md, before:

---
title: "A Winemaker’s Downtown Sonoma Afternoon"
date: "2016-05-30"
categories:
  - "tasting-rooms"
  - "restaurants"
  - "travel-guides"
  - "wine"
tags:
  - "cynthia-cosco"
  - "dining"
  - "gloria-ferrer"
  - "henry-matthes"
  - "lasalette"
  - "lunch-visitors-guide"
  - "matthes-vineyards"
  - "passaggio"
  - "portuguese"
  - "sonoma"
  - "sonoma-day-trip"
  - "tasting-rooms"
  - "tempranillo-rose"
  - "trousseau-gris"
  - "victor-hill"
  - "winemakers-sonoma"
---

Let's begin this blog post from the end!

> [Farewell, Sonoma! Had a great time tasting your wares with grower Henry Matthes! Blogs coming soon.... \_\_\_\_\_ #winelover #CAwine #whitewines #rhône #sonoma #norcal #travel #landscape #nature #grapes](https://www.instagram.com/p/BEeufePwQr2/)
>
> A photo posted by Becca Gomez Farrell (@thegourmez) on Apr 21, 2016 at 4:05pm PDT

[If you read my blog last week](http://thegourmez.com/an-intro-to-henry-matthes-vineyards-grenache-blanc), you saw my introduction to Sonoma’s [Matthes Vineyards](http://matthesvineyards.com/), an extra small estate vineyard specializing in grenache blanc. Henry Matthes, the grower and winemaker behind the label, showed me around his property….but he also showed me around _his_ Sonoma, or at least a few spots he’d recommend visiting for a delightful afternoon in the downtown area.

His best advice? Pace yourself so you can enjoy as much of the various styles of Sonoma winemaking as possible. I can’t think of a better goal.

**1. [Gloria Ferrer Caves & Vineyards](http://www.gloriaferrer.com/)** (23555 Highway 121). Although we did not visit Gloria Ferrer on this particular afternoon, I would be remiss if I didn’t include it first on this list as Henry was adamant than any good Sonoma trip should begin or end at this landmark winery. The first Sonoma Carneros vineyard to produce sparkling wines, they have pioneered méthod champenoise in the area. The caves look impressive, as does the terrace view. Don’t worry, Henry has promised we’ll go with our spouses sometime soon.

**2. [LaSalette](http://www.lasalette-restaurant.com/)** (452 First St. East, Suite H). No afternoon in wine country can be complete without your fill of the fresh, inventive cuisine it offers. I fell a bit in love with LaSalette (452 First Street) from the moment I saw its exposed brick oven.

[![LaSalette Brick Oven downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-09-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-09.jpg)

LaSalette serves New Portuguese cuisine, and you can find it at the cozy end of the courtyard passage just past the historic Sebastiani Theatre. It’s on the pricy side at $24–$30 per entrée, but going at lunch makes it more affordable.

I’m not one who typically enjoys watching chefs work—I’m more interested in what ends up on my plate—but seeing them make expert use of that beautiful oven made lunch quite entertaining.

[![LaSalette chef downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-10-353x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-10.jpg)

In that picture, the chef is preparing my appetizer: chorizo-crusted day boat scallops seared in the oven and served with a sweet potato puree over leek confit. Molho cru, which is a Portuguese chimichurri, tops the dish.

[![Scallops at LaSalette in Downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-12-500x373.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-12.jpg)

It was heaven, folks. People underappreciate how difficult it is to get scallops cooked to perfect tenderness, as they cook so fast, but LaSalette manages it with the unpredictability of fire! The bread served along with each meal is also a house specialty and worth savoring with every warm bite. I loved it so much that I’m seriously considering buying [Chef Manuel Azevedo’s cookbook](http://amzn.to/1VggO3E) just to learn more about it. Of course, it is also baked in the oven.

[![LaSalette bread in downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-11-397x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-11.jpg)

Henry is avoiding breads, and the chefs lived up to the challenge of making him an open-faced, warm sandwich with lettuce instead, which he praised vociferously. My peri-peri chicken salad was also quite nice, but nothing could compare with those scallops. Make sure you order a round…maybe two.

[![Chocolate hazelnut treats at LaSalette in downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-15-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-15.jpg)

Oh, and you'll finish your meal with those sweet little chocolate hazelnut balls!

[![LaSalette Menu, Reviews, Photos, Location and Info - Zomato](https://www.zomato.com/logo/16855546/minilink)](https://www.zomato.com/sonoma-ca/lasalette-sonoma "View Menu, Reviews, Photos & Information about LaSalette, Sonoma and other Restaurants in Sonoma")

**3. [Victor Hill Wines](http://www.victorhillwines.com/)** (109 East Napa Street).

[![Inside Victor HIlls' tasting room, downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-19-500x384.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-19.jpg)

Being in Sonoma means getting in a good helping of wine tasting! Henry took us to Victor Hill Wines’ tasting room, just down the block from LaSalette. Why that particular location when Sonoma Plaza has so many tasting rooms to offer? Because Matthes Vineyard grapes make an appearance in a pair of their recent white wine bottlings! Indeed, Vic McWilliams, Victor Hill’s winemaker, planned and oversaw Henry’s vineyards and those on the six neighboring properties for years.

[![Victor Hill 2013 grenache blanc Matthes Vineyard](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-20-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-20.jpg)

We tried the Victor Hill 2013 Grenache Blanc first, which I found to have a subtle nose but an impressive white pepper and thyme finish to a creamy custard apple glass.

[![Victor Hill Belle de Blancs Matthes Vineyard](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-22-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-22.jpg)

The Victor Hill Belle de Blanc 2012, made with 85% Matthes grapes, was exceptional. An extra toasty marshmallow nose caught my attention right away. That marshmallow hugged the glass, sheltering tart gooseberry and grape leaf herbal notes.

If you head inside this tasting room, make sure to ask for the white wines made with Matthes grapes!

**4. [Passaggio Wines](http://www.passaggiowines.com/)** (25 East Napa St. Suite C).




<div class="caption">

[![Henry Matthes and Passaggio’s winemaker, Cynthia Cosco.](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-29-373x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-29.jpg) Henry Matthes and Passaggio’s winemaker, Cynthia Cosco.</div>


Though I had not tried any Passaggio wines before, I knew of it as it happens to be a favorite of the local wine blogger community—in large part, because winemaker Cynthia Cosco is a pretty regular blogger herself. Luckily for me, Cynthia happened to be in when Henry and I passed by. As they enjoyed catching up on all the industry happenings, I sampled a couple glasses from the many, many varieties on offer in this tasting room. Cynthia is a busy woman!

[![Passaggio Tempranillo Rose](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-26-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-26.jpg)

The 2015 Passaggio “Rosé-Colored Glasses” Tempranillo Rosé, with grapes out of Clarksburg, was my first pick as tempranillo is my favorite wine grape. Thus, the rare rosé made with it is of extra interest to me. This one had a bite, like a mild yellow curry. The flavor notes I wrote are “fuzzy raspberry encased in dragon’s scales,” which certainly intrigues me enough to try it again another time! What was I thinking?!

[![Passagio Trousseau Gris](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-28-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-28.jpg)

At everyone in the room’s suggestion, I went for the 2015 Passaggio Trousseau Gris next, a small production grape variety rarely seen around these parts, being as there are only 10 acres of it being produced in the entire US. This vintage’s grapes were from the Russian River Valley. Drinking it, I thought of Little Red Riding Hood wandering off her path to pick flowers. Unlike in the fairy tale, the only danger in this glass is in _not_ lingering over its blossoming layers. Clean, with more complexity unraveling the longer you ponder.

One delicious lunch, great company, and two short tasting room trips later, and the afternoon was over! Although you may not have a storyteller as masterful as Henry at your side, I think you’ll find plenty to love about the Sonoma institutions he recommended. If you have more time than I did, may I suggest dinner at [the Girl and the Fig](http://www.thegirlandthefig.com/), where you can find Matthes Vineyard’s Grenache Blanc on the wine list? My thoughts on that wine, which Henry made as well as grew, are in [my last post](http://thegourmez.com/an-intro-to-henry-matthes-vineyards-grenache-blanc).

Thanks again, Henry, and we’ll get to Gloria Ferrer soon!

_Visited 21 April 2016._

Commit message:

Becca further updates
Removing photo website references, updating social medial embeds - all instagram, youtube, and up to 9/10/2015 on Twitter

content/blog/2016-05-30-a-winemakers-downtown-sonoma-afternoon.md, after:

---
title: "A Winemaker’s Downtown Sonoma Afternoon"
date: "2016-05-30"
categories:
  - "tasting-rooms"
  - "restaurants"
  - "travel-guides"
  - "wine"
tags:
  - "cynthia-cosco"
  - "dining"
  - "gloria-ferrer"
  - "henry-matthes"
  - "lasalette"
  - "lunch-visitors-guide"
  - "matthes-vineyards"
  - "passaggio"
  - "portuguese"
  - "sonoma"
  - "sonoma-day-trip"
  - "tasting-rooms"
  - "tempranillo-rose"
  - "trousseau-gris"
  - "victor-hill"
  - "winemakers-sonoma"
---

Let's begin this blog post from the end!

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-permalink="https://www.instagram.com/p/BEeufePwQr2/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" data-instgrm-version="14" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:540px; min-width:326px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:16px;"> <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BEeufePwQr2/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" style=" background:#FFFFFF; line-height:0; padding:0 0; text-align:center; text-decoration:none; width:100%;" target="_blank"> <div style=" display: flex; flex-direction: row; align-items: center;"> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; flex-grow: 0; height: 40px; margin-right: 14px; width: 40px;"></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column; flex-grow: 1; justify-content: center;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; margin-bottom: 6px; width: 100px;"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; width: 60px;"></div></div></div><div style="padding: 19% 0;"></div> <div style="display:block; height:50px; margin:0 auto 12px; width:50px;"><svg width="50px" height="50px" viewBox="0 0 60 60" version="1.1" xmlns="https://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="https://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"><g stroke="none" stroke-width="1" fill="none" fill-rule="evenodd"><g transform="translate(-511.000000, -20.000000)" fill="#000000"><g><path d="M556.869,30.41 C554.814,30.41 553.148,32.076 553.148,34.131 C553.148,36.186 554.814,37.852 556.869,37.852 C558.924,37.852 560.59,36.186 560.59,34.131 C560.59,32.076 558.924,30.41 556.869,30.41 M541,60.657 C535.114,60.657 530.342,55.887 530.342,50 C530.342,44.114 535.114,39.342 541,39.342 C546.887,39.342 551.658,44.114 551.658,50 C551.658,55.887 546.887,60.657 541,60.657 M541,33.886 C532.1,33.886 524.886,41.1 524.886,50 C524.886,58.899 532.1,66.113 541,66.113 C549.9,66.113 557.115,58.899 557.115,50 C557.115,41.1 549.9,33.886 541,33.886 M565.378,62.101 C565.244,65.022 564.756,66.606 564.346,67.663 C563.803,69.06 563.154,70.057 562.106,71.106 C561.058,72.155 560.06,72.803 558.662,73.347 C557.607,73.757 556.021,74.244 553.102,74.378 C549.944,74.521 548.997,74.552 541,74.552 C533.003,74.552 532.056,74.521 528.898,74.378 C525.979,74.244 524.393,73.757 523.338,73.347 C521.94,72.803 520.942,72.155 519.894,71.106 C518.846,70.057 518.197,69.06 517.654,67.663 C517.244,66.606 516.755,65.022 516.623,62.101 C516.479,58.943 516.448,57.996 516.448,50 C516.448,42.003 516.479,41.056 516.623,37.899 C516.755,34.978 517.244,33.391 517.654,32.338 C518.197,30.938 518.846,29.942 519.894,28.894 C520.942,27.846 521.94,27.196 523.338,26.654 C524.393,26.244 525.979,25.756 528.898,25.623 C532.057,25.479 533.004,25.448 541,25.448 C548.997,25.448 549.943,25.479 553.102,25.623 C556.021,25.756 557.607,26.244 558.662,26.654 C560.06,27.196 561.058,27.846 562.106,28.894 C563.154,29.942 563.803,30.938 564.346,32.338 C564.756,33.391 565.244,34.978 565.378,37.899 C565.522,41.056 565.552,42.003 565.552,50 C565.552,57.996 565.522,58.943 565.378,62.101 M570.82,37.631 C570.674,34.438 570.167,32.258 569.425,30.349 C568.659,28.377 567.633,26.702 565.965,25.035 C564.297,23.368 562.623,22.342 560.652,21.575 C558.743,20.834 556.562,20.326 553.369,20.18 C550.169,20.033 549.148,20 541,20 C532.853,20 531.831,20.033 528.631,20.18 C525.438,20.326 523.257,20.834 521.349,21.575 C519.376,22.342 517.703,23.368 516.035,25.035 C514.368,26.702 513.342,28.377 512.574,30.349 C511.834,32.258 511.326,34.438 511.181,37.631 C511.035,40.831 511,41.851 511,50 C511,58.147 511.035,59.17 511.181,62.369 C511.326,65.562 511.834,67.743 512.574,69.651 C513.342,71.625 514.368,73.296 516.035,74.965 C517.703,76.634 519.376,77.658 521.349,78.425 C523.257,79.167 525.438,79.673 528.631,79.82 C531.831,79.965 532.853,80.001 541,80.001 C549.148,80.001 550.169,79.965 553.369,79.82 C556.562,79.673 558.743,79.167 560.652,78.425 C562.623,77.658 564.297,76.634 565.965,74.965 C567.633,73.296 568.659,71.625 569.425,69.651 C570.167,67.743 570.674,65.562 570.82,62.369 C570.966,59.17 571,58.147 571,50 C571,41.851 570.966,40.831 570.82,37.631"></path></g></g></g></svg></div><div style="padding-top: 8px;"> <div style=" color:#3897f0; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:550; line-height:18px;">View this post on Instagram</div></div><div style="padding: 12.5% 0;"></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: row; margin-bottom: 14px; align-items: center;"><div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; height: 12.5px; width: 12.5px; transform: translateX(0px) translateY(7px);"></div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; height: 12.5px; transform: rotate(-45deg) translateX(3px) translateY(1px); width: 12.5px; flex-grow: 0; margin-right: 14px; margin-left: 2px;"></div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; height: 12.5px; width: 12.5px; transform: translateX(9px) translateY(-18px);"></div></div><div style="margin-left: 8px;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; flex-grow: 0; height: 20px; width: 20px;"></div> <div style=" width: 0; height: 0; border-top: 2px solid transparent; border-left: 6px solid #f4f4f4; border-bottom: 2px solid transparent; transform: translateX(16px) translateY(-4px) rotate(30deg)"></div></div><div style="margin-left: auto;"> <div style=" width: 0px; border-top: 8px solid #F4F4F4; border-right: 8px solid transparent; transform: translateY(16px);"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; flex-grow: 0; height: 12px; width: 16px; transform: translateY(-4px);"></div> <div style=" width: 0; height: 0; border-top: 8px solid #F4F4F4; border-left: 8px solid transparent; transform: translateY(-4px) translateX(8px);"></div></div></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column; flex-grow: 1; justify-content: center; margin-bottom: 24px;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; margin-bottom: 6px; width: 224px;"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; width: 144px;"></div></div></a><p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;"><a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BEeufePwQr2/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none;" target="_blank">A post shared by Becca | Author &amp; Influencer (@thegourmez)</a></p></div></blockquote> <script async src="//www.instagram.com/embed.js"></script>\

[If you read my blog last week](http://thegourmez.com/an-intro-to-henry-matthes-vineyards-grenache-blanc), you saw my introduction to Sonoma’s [Matthes Vineyards](http://matthesvineyards.com/), an extra small estate vineyard specializing in grenache blanc. Henry Matthes, the grower and winemaker behind the label, showed me around his property….but he also showed me around _his_ Sonoma, or at least a few spots he’d recommend visiting for a delightful afternoon in the downtown area.

His best advice? Pace yourself so you can enjoy as much of the various styles of Sonoma winemaking as possible. I can’t think of a better goal.

**1. [Gloria Ferrer Caves & Vineyards](http://www.gloriaferrer.com/)** (23555 Highway 121). Although we did not visit Gloria Ferrer on this particular afternoon, I would be remiss if I didn’t include it first on this list as Henry was adamant than any good Sonoma trip should begin or end at this landmark winery. The first Sonoma Carneros vineyard to produce sparkling wines, they have pioneered méthod champenoise in the area. The caves look impressive, as does the terrace view. Don’t worry, Henry has promised we’ll go with our spouses sometime soon.

**2. [LaSalette](http://www.lasalette-restaurant.com/)** (452 First St. East, Suite H). No afternoon in wine country can be complete without your fill of the fresh, inventive cuisine it offers. I fell a bit in love with LaSalette (452 First Street) from the moment I saw its exposed brick oven.

[![LaSalette Brick Oven downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-09-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-09.jpg)

LaSalette serves New Portuguese cuisine, and you can find it at the cozy end of the courtyard passage just past the historic Sebastiani Theatre. It’s on the pricy side at $24–$30 per entrée, but going at lunch makes it more affordable.

I’m not one who typically enjoys watching chefs work—I’m more interested in what ends up on my plate—but seeing them make expert use of that beautiful oven made lunch quite entertaining.

[![LaSalette chef downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-10-353x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-10.jpg)

In that picture, the chef is preparing my appetizer: chorizo-crusted day boat scallops seared in the oven and served with a sweet potato puree over leek confit. Molho cru, which is a Portuguese chimichurri, tops the dish.

[![Scallops at LaSalette in Downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-12-500x373.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-12.jpg)

It was heaven, folks. People underappreciate how difficult it is to get scallops cooked to perfect tenderness, as they cook so fast, but LaSalette manages it with the unpredictability of fire! The bread served along with each meal is also a house specialty and worth savoring with every warm bite. I loved it so much that I’m seriously considering buying [Chef Manuel Azevedo’s cookbook](http://amzn.to/1VggO3E) just to learn more about it. Of course, it is also baked in the oven.

[![LaSalette bread in downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-11-397x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-11.jpg)

Henry is avoiding breads, and the chefs lived up to the challenge of making him an open-faced, warm sandwich with lettuce instead, which he praised vociferously. My peri-peri chicken salad was also quite nice, but nothing could compare with those scallops. Make sure you order a round…maybe two.

[![Chocolate hazelnut treats at LaSalette in downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-15-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-15.jpg)

Oh, and you'll finish your meal with those sweet little chocolate hazelnut balls!

[![LaSalette Menu, Reviews, Photos, Location and Info - Zomato](https://www.zomato.com/logo/16855546/minilink)](https://www.zomato.com/sonoma-ca/lasalette-sonoma "View Menu, Reviews, Photos & Information about LaSalette, Sonoma and other Restaurants in Sonoma")

**3. [Victor Hill Wines](http://www.victorhillwines.com/)** (109 East Napa Street).

[![Inside Victor HIlls' tasting room, downtown Sonoma](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-19-500x384.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-19.jpg)

Being in Sonoma means getting in a good helping of wine tasting! Henry took us to Victor Hill Wines’ tasting room, just down the block from LaSalette. Why that particular location when Sonoma Plaza has so many tasting rooms to offer? Because Matthes Vineyard grapes make an appearance in a pair of their recent white wine bottlings! Indeed, Vic McWilliams, Victor Hill’s winemaker, planned and oversaw Henry’s vineyards and those on the six neighboring properties for years.

[![Victor Hill 2013 grenache blanc Matthes Vineyard](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-20-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-20.jpg)

We tried the Victor Hill 2013 Grenache Blanc first, which I found to have a subtle nose but an impressive white pepper and thyme finish to a creamy custard apple glass.

[![Victor Hill Belle de Blancs Matthes Vineyard](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-22-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-22.jpg)

The Victor Hill Belle de Blanc 2012, made with 85% Matthes grapes, was exceptional. An extra toasty marshmallow nose caught my attention right away. That marshmallow hugged the glass, sheltering tart gooseberry and grape leaf herbal notes.

If you head inside this tasting room, make sure to ask for the white wines made with Matthes grapes!

**4. [Passaggio Wines](http://www.passaggiowines.com/)** (25 East Napa St. Suite C).




<div class="caption">

[![Henry Matthes and Passaggio’s winemaker, Cynthia Cosco.](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-29-373x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-29.jpg) Henry Matthes and Passaggio’s winemaker, Cynthia Cosco.</div>


Though I had not tried any Passaggio wines before, I knew of it as it happens to be a favorite of the local wine blogger community—in large part, because winemaker Cynthia Cosco is a pretty regular blogger herself. Luckily for me, Cynthia happened to be in when Henry and I passed by. As they enjoyed catching up on all the industry happenings, I sampled a couple glasses from the many, many varieties on offer in this tasting room. Cynthia is a busy woman!

[![Passaggio Tempranillo Rose](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-26-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-26.jpg)

The 2015 Passaggio “Rosé-Colored Glasses” Tempranillo Rosé, with grapes out of Clarksburg, was my first pick as tempranillo is my favorite wine grape. Thus, the rare rosé made with it is of extra interest to me. This one had a bite, like a mild yellow curry. The flavor notes I wrote are “fuzzy raspberry encased in dragon’s scales,” which certainly intrigues me enough to try it again another time! What was I thinking?!

[![Passagio Trousseau Gris](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-28-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2016/05/MathesSonoma-28.jpg)

At everyone in the room’s suggestion, I went for the 2015 Passaggio Trousseau Gris next, a small production grape variety rarely seen around these parts, being as there are only 10 acres of it being produced in the entire US. This vintage’s grapes were from the Russian River Valley. Drinking it, I thought of Little Red Riding Hood wandering off her path to pick flowers. Unlike in the fairy tale, the only danger in this glass is in _not_ lingering over its blossoming layers. Clean, with more complexity unraveling the longer you ponder.

One delicious lunch, great company, and two short tasting room trips later, and the afternoon was over! Although you may not have a storyteller as masterful as Henry at your side, I think you’ll find plenty to love about the Sonoma institutions he recommended. If you have more time than I did, may I suggest dinner at [the Girl and the Fig](http://www.thegirlandthefig.com/), where you can find Matthes Vineyard’s Grenache Blanc on the wine list? My thoughts on that wine, which Henry made as well as grew, are in [my last post](http://thegourmez.com/an-intro-to-henry-matthes-vineyards-grenache-blanc).

Thanks again, Henry, and we’ll get to Gloria Ferrer soon!

_Visited 21 April 2016._
