content/blog/2017-07-11-japanese-rice-exports-sake-beika.md, before:

---
title: "Tasting My Way through Japanese Rice Exports: Grain, Snacks, and Sake"
date: "2017-07-11"
categories:
  - "restaurants"
  - "sake"
  - "events"
tags:
  - "beika"
  - "hakutsuru-superior-junmai-ginjo"
  - "hana"
  - "japanese-rice-exports"
  - "jre"
  - "ken-tominaga"
  - "kenichi-tominaga"
  - "morihaku"
  - "narutotai-junmai-ginjo-mizutokome"
  - "ozeki-hana-fuga"
  - "pabu"
  - "rice-tasting"
  - "sake-reviews"
  - "sake-tasting"
  - "scallops"
---

_Obligatory disclaimer: This post on Japanese rice exports to the Bay Area is based on my complimentary invitation from the JRE to the event._

As I write this post, I am sipping on Ȯzeki’s Hana-Fuga Peach Sparkling Sake, one of the items in my take-home goodie bag from an informative event hosted by the Japan Rice Exports Association (JRE) last January. It is the only item I’ve managed to keep hidden from my husband these last six months—he went through the sample bag of Morihaku Confectionary’s rice crackers so fast, I couldn’t snap a picture of them. To be fair, they were very tasty. If you are importing them, SEND ME SOME.




<div class="caption">

[![jre japanese rice exports](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-32-500x263.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-32.jpg) Sadly, not Morihaku’s crackers but a riceball treat I didn’t get to try.</div>


The event was geared toward educating potential clients and media members on the value of rice-based exports from Japan, and while I was very impressed with the pedigrees and enthusiasm of the esteemed guests, who taught us more about what makes Japanese rice so high quality, you know I was there for the tastings! The first was a side-by-side comparison of Japanese and American rice.

[![jre japanese rice exports](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-08-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-08.jpg)

We tasted them along with spicy cod roe, miso, and cooked and sweetened seaweed. I picked up the more floral aroma of the Japanese rice right away. The natural affinity of salty food and rice was made evident with a mere sprinkle of salt flakes over the two samples.

A second, fantastic, pairing dish involved mushrooms, scallops, prawns, bonito, and a soup stock base. The vital garnish of shiso microgreens made me smile with contentedness as its grassy notes burst on my tongue.

[![ Kenichi Tominaga japanese rice exports](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-09-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-09.jpg)

I was admittedly too happy eating the dish to truly compare it with each type of rice, and that fault is entirely Chef Kenichi Tominaga’s, of Sonoma County’s Hana and San Francisco’s PABU, who prepared the dish.




<div class="caption">

[![ken tominaga japanese rice exports sushi](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-30-473x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-30.jpg) Chef Tominaga rolling sushi.</div>


I’ll have to take his word for it that eating salty foods with rice creates harmony in your mouth. I was being too typically American and just stuffing mine.

But my palate perked up for the sake tasting that followed, which was led by sake sommelier Craig A. Tabandera, whose passion for the fermented rice drink came through in his declaration that sake is the perfect alcohol as it combines the character of wine with the brewing methods of beer. And as it generally only has a third of wine’s acidity, it’s easier going down.

[![japanese rice exports sake tasting](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-23-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-23.jpg)

We had five sakes to try, and I loved the Narutotai Brewery’s Junmai Ginjo Mizutokome.

[![Narutotai Brewery’s Junmai Ginjo Mizutokome](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-11-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-11.jpg)

Caramelized pineapple dominated with a lively herbal nose of anise and dried palm leaves. It hit the throat a bit strong, but the coconut, papaya, and ending grassy note soothed. I’d love to see this at a store near me, for sure.

Another sake I’d be happy to have at home was our first glass, the Hakutsuru Superior Junmai Ginjo.

[![ Hakutsuru Superior Junmai Ginjo](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-16-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-16.jpg)

Thirst-quenchingly clear, this sake spoke of delicate, velvety, soft white flowers with layers of asian pear and papaya.

I’d also be happy to have a chef like Mr. Tominaga at home, but I guess I’ll have to be satisfied with the sushi-rolling demonstration he gave us after the sake tasting.

[![Sake-Event-25](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-25-500x381.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-25.jpg)[![japanese rice export sushi](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-34-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-34.jpg)

How fun! I didn’t try a roll, but based on that scallop dish, trying one of his restaurants is a must. A full, thoughtful Japanese dinner is among the best sensory experiences available. I think the last time I had one was at iSushi in Castro Valley at least three years ago.

> [A parade of 007 #sushi for tonight's celebration. #EastBay](https://www.instagram.com/p/putEwywQgG/)
>
> A post shared by Becca Gomez Farrell (@thegourmez) on Jun 26, 2014 at 6:53pm PDT

Thanks to the JRE for inviting me along on this peek into “This is Japan Quality” imported rice products, and I hope I get to see more such treats at my local stores soon—yes, local retailers, you can consider that a pledge to purchase. Before I go, however, just how was that Ȯzeki’s Hana-Fuga Peach Sparkling Sake?

[![oeki hana fuga peach sake](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/peach-sake-375x500.jpeg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/peach-sake.jpeg)

Plenty peach! A little too sweet for my palate, but a refreshing beverage for a warm summer day across the Pacific, nonetheless. And per the label, it’s available at [True Sake](http://www.truesake.com/) in San Francisco...which is the first sake store in the USA?! Apparently, I need to make a visit there as well.

_Event attended 10 January 2017._

Commit message:

Becca further updates
Removing photo website references, updating social medial embeds - all instagram, youtube, and up to 9/10/2015 on Twitter

content/blog/2017-07-11-japanese-rice-exports-sake-beika.md, after:

---
title: "Tasting My Way through Japanese Rice Exports: Grain, Snacks, and Sake"
date: "2017-07-11"
categories:
  - "restaurants"
  - "sake"
  - "events"
tags:
  - "beika"
  - "hakutsuru-superior-junmai-ginjo"
  - "hana"
  - "japanese-rice-exports"
  - "jre"
  - "ken-tominaga"
  - "kenichi-tominaga"
  - "morihaku"
  - "narutotai-junmai-ginjo-mizutokome"
  - "ozeki-hana-fuga"
  - "pabu"
  - "rice-tasting"
  - "sake-reviews"
  - "sake-tasting"
  - "scallops"
---

_Obligatory disclaimer: This post on Japanese rice exports to the Bay Area is based on my complimentary invitation from the JRE to the event._

As I write this post, I am sipping on Ȯzeki’s Hana-Fuga Peach Sparkling Sake, one of the items in my take-home goodie bag from an informative event hosted by the Japan Rice Exports Association (JRE) last January. It is the only item I’ve managed to keep hidden from my husband these last six months—he went through the sample bag of Morihaku Confectionary’s rice crackers so fast, I couldn’t snap a picture of them. To be fair, they were very tasty. If you are importing them, SEND ME SOME.




<div class="caption">

[![jre japanese rice exports](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-32-500x263.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-32.jpg) Sadly, not Morihaku’s crackers but a riceball treat I didn’t get to try.</div>


The event was geared toward educating potential clients and media members on the value of rice-based exports from Japan, and while I was very impressed with the pedigrees and enthusiasm of the esteemed guests, who taught us more about what makes Japanese rice so high quality, you know I was there for the tastings! The first was a side-by-side comparison of Japanese and American rice.

[![jre japanese rice exports](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-08-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-08.jpg)

We tasted them along with spicy cod roe, miso, and cooked and sweetened seaweed. I picked up the more floral aroma of the Japanese rice right away. The natural affinity of salty food and rice was made evident with a mere sprinkle of salt flakes over the two samples.

A second, fantastic, pairing dish involved mushrooms, scallops, prawns, bonito, and a soup stock base. The vital garnish of shiso microgreens made me smile with contentedness as its grassy notes burst on my tongue.

[![ Kenichi Tominaga japanese rice exports](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-09-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-09.jpg)

I was admittedly too happy eating the dish to truly compare it with each type of rice, and that fault is entirely Chef Kenichi Tominaga’s, of Sonoma County’s Hana and San Francisco’s PABU, who prepared the dish.




<div class="caption">

[![ken tominaga japanese rice exports sushi](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-30-473x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-30.jpg) Chef Tominaga rolling sushi.</div>


I’ll have to take his word for it that eating salty foods with rice creates harmony in your mouth. I was being too typically American and just stuffing mine.

But my palate perked up for the sake tasting that followed, which was led by sake sommelier Craig A. Tabandera, whose passion for the fermented rice drink came through in his declaration that sake is the perfect alcohol as it combines the character of wine with the brewing methods of beer. And as it generally only has a third of wine’s acidity, it’s easier going down.

[![japanese rice exports sake tasting](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-23-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-23.jpg)

We had five sakes to try, and I loved the Narutotai Brewery’s Junmai Ginjo Mizutokome.

[![Narutotai Brewery’s Junmai Ginjo Mizutokome](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-11-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-11.jpg)

Caramelized pineapple dominated with a lively herbal nose of anise and dried palm leaves. It hit the throat a bit strong, but the coconut, papaya, and ending grassy note soothed. I’d love to see this at a store near me, for sure.

Another sake I’d be happy to have at home was our first glass, the Hakutsuru Superior Junmai Ginjo.

[![ Hakutsuru Superior Junmai Ginjo](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-16-334x500.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-16.jpg)

Thirst-quenchingly clear, this sake spoke of delicate, velvety, soft white flowers with layers of asian pear and papaya.

I’d also be happy to have a chef like Mr. Tominaga at home, but I guess I’ll have to be satisfied with the sushi-rolling demonstration he gave us after the sake tasting.

[![Sake-Event-25](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-25-500x381.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-25.jpg)[![japanese rice export sushi](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-34-500x334.jpg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/Sake-Event-34.jpg)

How fun! I didn’t try a roll, but based on that scallop dish, trying one of his restaurants is a must. A full, thoughtful Japanese dinner is among the best sensory experiences available. I think the last time I had one was at iSushi in Castro Valley at least three years ago.

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-permalink="https://www.instagram.com/p/putEwywQgG/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" data-instgrm-version="14" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:540px; min-width:326px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:16px;"> <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/putEwywQgG/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" style=" background:#FFFFFF; line-height:0; padding:0 0; text-align:center; text-decoration:none; width:100%;" target="_blank"> <div style=" display: flex; flex-direction: row; align-items: center;"> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; flex-grow: 0; height: 40px; margin-right: 14px; width: 40px;"></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column; flex-grow: 1; justify-content: center;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; margin-bottom: 6px; width: 100px;"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; width: 60px;"></div></div></div><div style="padding: 19% 0;"></div> <div style="display:block; height:50px; margin:0 auto 12px; width:50px;"><svg width="50px" height="50px" viewBox="0 0 60 60" version="1.1" xmlns="https://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="https://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"><g stroke="none" stroke-width="1" fill="none" fill-rule="evenodd"><g transform="translate(-511.000000, -20.000000)" fill="#000000"><g><path d="M556.869,30.41 C554.814,30.41 553.148,32.076 553.148,34.131 C553.148,36.186 554.814,37.852 556.869,37.852 C558.924,37.852 560.59,36.186 560.59,34.131 C560.59,32.076 558.924,30.41 556.869,30.41 M541,60.657 C535.114,60.657 530.342,55.887 530.342,50 C530.342,44.114 535.114,39.342 541,39.342 C546.887,39.342 551.658,44.114 551.658,50 C551.658,55.887 546.887,60.657 541,60.657 M541,33.886 C532.1,33.886 524.886,41.1 524.886,50 C524.886,58.899 532.1,66.113 541,66.113 C549.9,66.113 557.115,58.899 557.115,50 C557.115,41.1 549.9,33.886 541,33.886 M565.378,62.101 C565.244,65.022 564.756,66.606 564.346,67.663 C563.803,69.06 563.154,70.057 562.106,71.106 C561.058,72.155 560.06,72.803 558.662,73.347 C557.607,73.757 556.021,74.244 553.102,74.378 C549.944,74.521 548.997,74.552 541,74.552 C533.003,74.552 532.056,74.521 528.898,74.378 C525.979,74.244 524.393,73.757 523.338,73.347 C521.94,72.803 520.942,72.155 519.894,71.106 C518.846,70.057 518.197,69.06 517.654,67.663 C517.244,66.606 516.755,65.022 516.623,62.101 C516.479,58.943 516.448,57.996 516.448,50 C516.448,42.003 516.479,41.056 516.623,37.899 C516.755,34.978 517.244,33.391 517.654,32.338 C518.197,30.938 518.846,29.942 519.894,28.894 C520.942,27.846 521.94,27.196 523.338,26.654 C524.393,26.244 525.979,25.756 528.898,25.623 C532.057,25.479 533.004,25.448 541,25.448 C548.997,25.448 549.943,25.479 553.102,25.623 C556.021,25.756 557.607,26.244 558.662,26.654 C560.06,27.196 561.058,27.846 562.106,28.894 C563.154,29.942 563.803,30.938 564.346,32.338 C564.756,33.391 565.244,34.978 565.378,37.899 C565.522,41.056 565.552,42.003 565.552,50 C565.552,57.996 565.522,58.943 565.378,62.101 M570.82,37.631 C570.674,34.438 570.167,32.258 569.425,30.349 C568.659,28.377 567.633,26.702 565.965,25.035 C564.297,23.368 562.623,22.342 560.652,21.575 C558.743,20.834 556.562,20.326 553.369,20.18 C550.169,20.033 549.148,20 541,20 C532.853,20 531.831,20.033 528.631,20.18 C525.438,20.326 523.257,20.834 521.349,21.575 C519.376,22.342 517.703,23.368 516.035,25.035 C514.368,26.702 513.342,28.377 512.574,30.349 C511.834,32.258 511.326,34.438 511.181,37.631 C511.035,40.831 511,41.851 511,50 C511,58.147 511.035,59.17 511.181,62.369 C511.326,65.562 511.834,67.743 512.574,69.651 C513.342,71.625 514.368,73.296 516.035,74.965 C517.703,76.634 519.376,77.658 521.349,78.425 C523.257,79.167 525.438,79.673 528.631,79.82 C531.831,79.965 532.853,80.001 541,80.001 C549.148,80.001 550.169,79.965 553.369,79.82 C556.562,79.673 558.743,79.167 560.652,78.425 C562.623,77.658 564.297,76.634 565.965,74.965 C567.633,73.296 568.659,71.625 569.425,69.651 C570.167,67.743 570.674,65.562 570.82,62.369 C570.966,59.17 571,58.147 571,50 C571,41.851 570.966,40.831 570.82,37.631"></path></g></g></g></svg></div><div style="padding-top: 8px;"> <div style=" color:#3897f0; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:550; line-height:18px;">View this post on Instagram</div></div><div style="padding: 12.5% 0;"></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: row; margin-bottom: 14px; align-items: center;"><div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; height: 12.5px; width: 12.5px; transform: translateX(0px) translateY(7px);"></div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; height: 12.5px; transform: rotate(-45deg) translateX(3px) translateY(1px); width: 12.5px; flex-grow: 0; margin-right: 14px; margin-left: 2px;"></div> <div style="background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; height: 12.5px; width: 12.5px; transform: translateX(9px) translateY(-18px);"></div></div><div style="margin-left: 8px;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 50%; flex-grow: 0; height: 20px; width: 20px;"></div> <div style=" width: 0; height: 0; border-top: 2px solid transparent; border-left: 6px solid #f4f4f4; border-bottom: 2px solid transparent; transform: translateX(16px) translateY(-4px) rotate(30deg)"></div></div><div style="margin-left: auto;"> <div style=" width: 0px; border-top: 8px solid #F4F4F4; border-right: 8px solid transparent; transform: translateY(16px);"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; flex-grow: 0; height: 12px; width: 16px; transform: translateY(-4px);"></div> <div style=" width: 0; height: 0; border-top: 8px solid #F4F4F4; border-left: 8px solid transparent; transform: translateY(-4px) translateX(8px);"></div></div></div> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column; flex-grow: 1; justify-content: center; margin-bottom: 24px;"> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; margin-bottom: 6px; width: 224px;"></div> <div style=" background-color: #F4F4F4; border-radius: 4px; flex-grow: 0; height: 14px; width: 144px;"></div></div></a><p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;"><a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/putEwywQgG/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;utm_campaign=loading" style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none;" target="_blank">A post shared by Becca | Author &amp; Influencer (@thegourmez)</a></p></div></blockquote> <script async src="//www.instagram.com/embed.js"></script>\

Thanks to the JRE for inviting me along on this peek into “This is Japan Quality” imported rice products, and I hope I get to see more such treats at my local stores soon—yes, local retailers, you can consider that a pledge to purchase. Before I go, however, just how was that Ȯzeki’s Hana-Fuga Peach Sparkling Sake?

[![oeki hana fuga peach sake](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/peach-sake-375x500.jpeg)](http://s3.amazonaws.com/thegourmez-wpmedia/2017/07/peach-sake.jpeg)

Plenty peach! A little too sweet for my palate, but a refreshing beverage for a warm summer day across the Pacific, nonetheless. And per the label, it’s available at [True Sake](http://www.truesake.com/) in San Francisco...which is the first sake store in the USA?! Apparently, I need to make a visit there as well.

_Event attended 10 January 2017._
